1989 Processor: ALU organized pipeline in 5 stages
1) Fetch
2) Decode Instruction
3) Translate memory addresses and displacements for instrution
4) Execute Instruction
5) Retire Instruction
----------------------------------
1993 Pentium: Super scalar execution. 
- You have a multiple pipeline
- Branch prediction -> so it starts execution ahead of the next extraction
	If you get the wrong speculation you 
- Separate L1 cache 
	1) Instruction
	2) Data
Unified cache contains both the types of caches.
---------------------------------
1995 Pentium Pro:
- Names the registers and reorders them automatically. (You do not need to be very careful) "Register re-order buffer"
You input x86 instructions -> decodes in micro-opration -> in RISC.
Front hand (CISC)
They are launched into RISC looking for data.
The instructions are gonna be run out of order and are read in order.
NOTE: You have a lot of pipelines 
2002
In any micro-processor (GPU,CPU,FPGA) you need to make work everything. How are you sure to keep busy the processes?
Two front-hand (decode instruction) and given to give to back hand (It double the cores "Hyper-threading") -> Hardware support Program Counter, File Counter, Register -Files
This does not care about power that explodes.
2003 Dothan-Banias -> diminished power consumption.
Interacting register- L1 cache is 4 cycòes. 12 cycles to L2, L3 cache 26 cycles, 230-360 cycles for main memory.


Performance is memory usage. Computation is free (10^-3)
When you use cycles you bolck the cache of a block. For example all the array. Cache is the mirror of memory.

Cache are static -> Low in power
RAM -> High in power

L1 similar kBytes (max MB that is very good)
How much of the optimization done by the compiler? It depends on the compiler, linear algebra package should be doing this.
Cache Oblivious Code (recursive decomposition of loops)

I can double transistor in each socket every two Years affordably.

CPU (Ghz 
The power of changing transistor state will scale with scale, when you add a lot of transister, you have steady static current that is dominant on the chip so the Ghz vannot increase.
P = CV^2f so parallelism lowers the energy)
GPU: You create coies of kernel and group them in warps. Using some indexing that is very important.

Vector (SIMD) programming. Source of wasting energy.
YOU TELL THE COMPILER TO VECTORIZE CODE FOR YOU
Cpu and GPU in the same memory space is super good as you have very different workloads. Structurally very different.
	